

1)Compute Engine
2)What type of storage in GCP
3)what is difference b/w regional and multiregional
4)what is CDN
5)what is diff b/w static and block storage --> cloud blucket / disk block
6)can we use storage(like S3) as hard drive for VM? - A
7)type of load balancer
8)what is difference b/w frontend and backend load balancing?
9)what are the health check
10)What is managed Instance Group?
11)how to set parameter in MIG? 6 fure
12)what is microservices?
13)what is benefit of microservices on top of monolithic?
14)what is diff b/w internal and external LB in respect to GCP
15)how to create instance in compute engine
16)what kind of information/requirement needed for build infrastructure
17)What is cool down period ?
Specify how long it takes for your app to initialize from boot time until it is ready to serve. Cool down period  is also known as the application initialization period
18)what is stabilization periods in GCP?
19)type of google account 
20) You have a development project with appropriate IAM roles defined. You are creating a production project
and want to have the same IAM roles on the new project, using the fewest possible steps. What should you
do?
21) You need a dynamic way of provisioning VMs on Compute Engine. The exact specifications will be in a
dedicated configuration file. You want to follow Google’s recommended practices. Which method should
you use?
22) Your development team needs a new Jenkins server for their project. You need to deploy the server using
the fewest steps possible. What should you do?
23) You are the project owner of a GCP project and want to delegate control to colleagues to manage buckets
and files in Cloud Storage. Which IAM roles should you grant your colleagues?
24) You need to monitor resources that are distributed over different projects in Google Cloud Platform. You
want to consolidate reporting under the same Stackdriver Monitoring dashboard.
25) You need to create a new billing account and then link it with an existing Google Cloud Platform project.
What should you do? -- Org and billing admin..
26) You deployed an App Engine application using gcloud app deploy, but it did not deploy to the intended
project. You want to find out why this happened and where the application deployed. What should you do?
27) Your company uses Cloud Storage to store application backup files for disaster recovery purposes. You
want to follow Google’s recommended practices. Which storage option should you use?
28) You recently deployed a new version of an application to App Engine and then discovered a bug in the
release. You need to immediately revert to the prior version of the application. What should you do?

Terraform:
Terraform:
What is terraform init and what it does?
what is modules in terraform? -->
what is terraform variable?
what is stat file in terraform?
where do you save the state file
why use main.tf
what is use of var.tf 
what is workspace in terraform?
Can we move terraform state file?
What is provider and what is their role in terraform?
why we used provisioner in Terraform?
what is terraform statefile lock and why we used it?
what is terraform import and why we use it?
what is terraform cloud?
what is terraform sentinel?
what is provisioner in Terraform?
difference between local-exec and remote-exec in terraform?
what is terraform module and what is purpose to use it?
what is terraform registry?
what is output and why use in terraform?
what is expression?
what is terraform validate?


Python:
what is list?
what is string?
what is benefit of using python?
what is dictionary?

Ansible:
what kind of module used in ansible?
where you create role vs playbook vs task in ansible?
what is role and module?
what is difference b/w role and module?
what is playbook and what it contents?
what is inventory? --> 
type of inventory?
how dynamic inventory work?
What is module and what is use of it?
what kind of template used in ansible
what is group and why used
what is dynamic inventory
used any filter in ansible?
what type of variables used in ansible?
What is order of precedence for variables?
what is idempotency?
what template in ansible and what is use of it?
what key word used to iterate in ansible? 
with_item in  ansible?
difference b/w loop and with_item?
what is with_together?
how to secure password in ansible?
difference b/w git pull and gitfetch
how to resolve merge conflict?
what is VPC and how to open firewall?
what is route table?
what is DNS and waht is use of DNS?
how it works?
what is load balancer and how it works?
how many types of load balancer algorithm?
make sure host/server is running and some processs runing and update config file in /etc/host
ping ip, ps -ef process name, reg is+ to get accurate value and then replace using sed command 
what is include role?
what is import task?
what is interpolation---
Ansible dictionary with item?

Jenkins:
what is resource, source, var, and what is their use in shared library?
what is shared library and what is their structue and how to use them?
what is diff b/w source and resource
where to store secret/creds under jenkins?
what other options to store secret for jenkins?
what kind of migration services for data migration from onpremise to Cloud?
what is scripted pipeline
what is declarative pipeline
what is difference between declarive and scripted?
what kind of pipeline you handled
how to differentiate between scripted and declarative pipeline
can we call shared library from scripted and declarative pipeine.
the directory where will you store your library?
what is directory structure for shared library
how to call variable in jenkins file/pipeline from shared library
var can be automatically called in jenkins file/pipeline.
how to push configuration changes to your pod?
how did you manage to create playbook?
what is purpose of handler?
how do you manage variables and precedence?
what is iterpolation and idempotance in Ansible?
how jenkins job trigger automatically
what is SCM polling in Jenkins?



o GKE, Compute, Migration, Network Security, Cloud IAM
o Cloud Storage, Cloud SQL, Big Query, Composer, Data Proc
o Load balancers
o VPC, Firewalls, VPN Gateways
o Docker/Kubernetes
o Harness, Jfrog, GitHub for CI/CD - Exposure to setting up the CICD Pipeline for both application and Infrastructure using Jenkins, Terraform Atlantis, and terraform Cloud.
