What is terraform init and what it does?
The terraform init command is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration

what is modules in terraform? -->
A module is a container for multiple resources that are used together. Every Terraform configuration has at least one module, known as its root module, which consists of the resources defined in the . tf files in the main working directory.

what is terraform variable?
Variables in Terraform are a great way to define centrally controlled reusable values. The information in Terraform variables is saved independently from the deployment plans, which makes the values easy to read and edit from a single file.

what is stat file in terraform?
Terraform stores information about your infrastructure in a state file. This state file keeps track of resources created by your configuration and maps them to real-world resources.

where do you save the state file?
The state file is commonly stored either on a local machine, in a remote storage location (like a storage account in Azure, or S3 bucket in AWS), or in Terraform cloud. By default, it is stored on the local machine and is named “terraform.

why use main.tf?
Why do we use modules in terraform?
A Terraform module allows you to create logical abstraction on the top of some resource set. In other words, a module allows you to group resources together and reuse this group later, possibly many times

what is use of var.tf?
A variables.tf file is used to define the variables type and optionally set a default value. A terraform. tfvars file is used to set the actual values of the variables.
what is workspace in terraform?
In Terraform CLI, workspaces are separate instances of state data that can be used from the same working directory. You can use workspaces to manage multiple non-overlapping groups of resources with the same configuration. Every initialized working directory has at least one workspace.

Can we move terraform state file?
The terraform state mv command moves resources from one state file to another. You can also rename resources with mv . The move command will update the resource in state, but not in your configuration file.

What is provider and what is their role in terraform?
A provider is a Terraform plugin that allows users to manage an external API. Provider plugins like the AWS provider or the cloud-init provider act as a translation layer that allows Terraform to communicate with many different cloud providers, databases, and services.

why we used provisioner in Terraform?
Provisioners are used to execute scripts on a local or remote machine as part of resource creation or destruction. Provisioners can be used to bootstrap a resource, cleanup before destroy, run configuration management, etc.

what is terraform statefile lock and why we used it?
If supported by your backend, Terraform will lock your state for all operations that could write state. This prevents others from acquiring the lock and potentially corrupting your state. State locking happens automatically on all operations that could write state. You won't see any message that it is happening.
what is terraform import and why we use it?
The terraform import command is used to import existing infrastructure. The command currently can only import one resource at a time. This means you can't yet point Terraform import to an entire collection of resources such as an AWS VPC and import all of it.
what is terraform cloud?
Terraform Cloud is HashiCorp's managed service offering. It eliminates the need for unnecessary tooling and documentation for practitioners, teams, and organizations to use Terraform in production. Provision infrastructure in a remote environment that is optimized for the Terraform workflow

what is terraform sentinel?
Terraform enforces Sentinel policies between the plan and apply phases of a run, preventing out of policy infrastructure from being provisioned. Unless overridden by an authorized user, only plans that pass all Sentinel policies checked against them are allowed to proceed to the apply step.

what is provisioner in Terraform?
Provisioners are used to execute scripts on a local or remote machine as part of resource creation or destruction. Provisioners can be used to bootstrap a resource, cleanup before destroy, run configuration management, etc.

difference between local-exec and remote-exec in terraform?
For example, if we want to write EC2 instance IP address to a file, then we can use below local-exec provisioner with our EC2 resource and save it locally in a file. remote-exec provisioner helps invoke a script on the remote resource once it is created.

what is terraform module and what is purpose to use it?
A Terraform module is a collection of standard configuration files in a dedicated directory. Terraform modules encapsulate groups of resources dedicated to one task, reducing the amount of code you have to develop for similar infrastructure components.
what is terraform registry?
For Terraform users, the Terraform Registry enables the distribution of Terraform modules, which are reusable configurations. The Terraform Registry acts as a centralized repository for module sharing, making modules easier to discover and reuse

what is output and why use in terraform?
Terraform output values allow you to export structured data about your resources. You can use this data to configure other parts of your infrastructure with automation tools, or as a data source for another Terraform workspace. Outputs are also necessary to share data from a child module to your root module
what is expression?
Expressions can be used in a number of places in the Terraform language, but some contexts limit which expression constructs are allowed, such as requiring a literal value of a particular type or forbidding references to resource attributes.

what is terraform validate?
The terraform validate command validates the configuration files in a directory, referring only to the configuration and not accessing any remote services such as remote state, provider APIs, etc.


================

1)Compute Engine
2)What type of storage in GCP
3)what is difference b/w regional and multiregional
4)what is CDN
5)what is diff b/w static and block storage --> cloud blucket / disk block
6)can we use storage(like S3) as hard drive for VM? - A
7)type of load balancer
8)what is difference b/w frontend and backend load balancing?
9)what are the health check
10)What is managed Instance Group?
11)how to set parameter in MIG? 6 fure
12)what is microservices?
13)what is benefit of microservices on top of monolithic?
14)what is diff b/w internal and external LB in respect to GCP
15)how to create instance in compute engine
16)what kind of information/requirement needed for build infrastructure
17)What is cool down period ?
Specify how long it takes for your app to initialize from boot time until it is ready to serve. Cool down period  is also known as the application initialization period
18)what is stabilization periods in GCP?
19)type of google account 
20) You have a development project with appropriate IAM roles defined. You are creating a production project
and want to have the same IAM roles on the new project, using the fewest possible steps. What should you
do?
21) You need a dynamic way of provisioning VMs on Compute Engine. The exact specifications will be in a
dedicated configuration file. You want to follow Google’s recommended practices. Which method should
you use?
22) Your development team needs a new Jenkins server for their project. You need to deploy the server using
the fewest steps possible. What should you do?
23) You are the project owner of a GCP project and want to delegate control to colleagues to manage buckets
and files in Cloud Storage. Which IAM roles should you grant your colleagues?
24) You need to monitor resources that are distributed over different projects in Google Cloud Platform. You
want to consolidate reporting under the same Stackdriver Monitoring dashboard.
25) You need to create a new billing account and then link it with an existing Google Cloud Platform project.
What should you do? -- Org and billing admin..
26) You deployed an App Engine application using gcloud app deploy, but it did not deploy to the intended
project. You want to find out why this happened and where the application deployed. What should you do?
27) Your company uses Cloud Storage to store application backup files for disaster recovery purposes. You
want to follow Google’s recommended practices. Which storage option should you use?
28) You recently deployed a new version of an application to App Engine and then discovered a bug in the
release. You need to immediately revert to the prior version of the application. What should you do?

Terraform:
Terraform:
What is terraform init and what it does?
what is modules in terraform? -->
what is terraform variable?
what is stat file in terraform?
where do you save the state file
why use main.tf
what is use of var.tf 
what is workspace in terraform?
Can we move terraform state file?
What is provider and what is their role in terraform?
why we used provisioner in Terraform?
what is terraform statefile lock and why we used it?
what is terraform import and why we use it?
what is terraform cloud?
what is terraform sentinel?
what is provisioner in Terraform?
difference between local-exec and remote-exec in terraform?
what is terraform module and what is purpose to use it?
what is terraform registry?
what is output and why use in terraform?
what is expression?
what is terraform validate?


Python:
what is list?
what is string?
what is benefit of using python?
what is dictionary?

Ansible:
what kind of module used in ansible?
where you create role vs playbook vs task in ansible?
what is role and module?
what is difference b/w role and module?
what is playbook and what it contents?
what is inventory? --> 
type of inventory?
how dynamic inventory work?
What is module and what is use of it?
what kind of template used in ansible
what is group and why used
what is dynamic inventory
used any filter in ansible?
what type of variables used in ansible?
What is order of precedence for variables?
what is idempotency?
what template in ansible and what is use of it?
what key word used to iterate in ansible? 
with_item in  ansible?
difference b/w loop and with_item?
what is with_together?
how to secure password in ansible?
difference b/w git pull and gitfetch
how to resolve merge conflict?
what is VPC and how to open firewall?
what is route table?
what is DNS and waht is use of DNS?
how it works?
what is load balancer and how it works?
how many types of load balancer algorithm?
make sure host/server is running and some processs runing and update config file in /etc/host
ping ip, ps -ef process name, reg is+ to get accurate value and then replace using sed command 
what is include role?
what is import task?
what is interpolation---
Ansible dictionary with item?

Jenkins:
what is resource, source, var, and what is their use in shared library?
what is shared library and what is their structue and how to use them?
what is diff b/w source and resource
where to store secret/creds under jenkins?
what other options to store secret for jenkins?
what kind of migration services for data migration from onpremise to Cloud?
what is scripted pipeline
what is declarative pipeline
what is difference between declarive and scripted?
what kind of pipeline you handled
how to differentiate between scripted and declarative pipeline
can we call shared library from scripted and declarative pipeine.
the directory where will you store your library?
what is directory structure for shared library
how to call variable in jenkins file/pipeline from shared library
var can be automatically called in jenkins file/pipeline.
how to push configuration changes to your pod?
how did you manage to create playbook?
what is purpose of handler?
how do you manage variables and precedence?
what is iterpolation and idempotance in Ansible?
how jenkins job trigger automatically
what is SCM polling in Jenkins?
